[THEME MUSIC]
>>WILLIAM HENRY: Hello.
I'm William Henry.
Welcome to "The Awakened Soul."
In the previous episode,
we concluded with a phrase
from the Gnostic
Gospel of Philip
regarding a perfect light
that illuminates the soul.
"But when it, the perfect light,
is revealed," says this gospel,
"then the perfect light
will flow out on every one.
And all those who are in it will
receive the chrism, the oil.
Then the slaves will be free
and the captives ransomed."
This statement is
incredibly hopeful.
It says that one day a perfect
or holy light will be revealed
and that it will
flow out on everyone
and we will all shine
in the light of freedom.
This is the gnostic
promise to free the soul
from its entrapment or
enslavement in matter
and return it to
its eternal source.
But there's a lot more
packed in this statement.
Philip actually tells
us how this soul freedom
can be achieved.
He says we will receive an oil.
Chrism is referred
to by the gnostics
as the Oil of Resurrection.
This astounding
oil is well known
in ancient stories
about ascension,
and we will explore
it here in conjunction
with other soul-rising
technologies.
The best place to
begin is with the story
of the pre-flood prophet Enoch.
In the Book of Enoch,
he was taken into heaven
by the archangel
Michael, who anointed him
with a holy oil that dissolved
his body into glorified rainbow
light that made him
the same as the angels.
As the Book of Enoch says,
"and the Lord said to Michael,
take Enoch and strip him
of his earthly garments
and anoint him
with the holy oil,
and clothe him in the
garments of glory.
And Michael stripped
me of my garments
and anointed me
with the holy oil.
And I looked at
myself, and I was
one of the glorious ones,
one of the Perfect Ones,
and there was no
difference and all my fear
and trembling left me."
I believe that this
describes Enoch's attainment
of the perfect robe of the
soul, the robe of light,
or the rainbow light body of
the Tibetan great perfection
tradition, although the Tibetan
tradition does not mention
an oil as part of this process.
Later, Jesus had
this same experience
when Mary Magdalene
anointed him with the chrism
from her alabaster jar.
This sacred oil is the
most important element
in the transformation of
Enoch, a human, into an angel
or an ascended being of light.
3 Enoch tells us that the
oil's appearance is greater
than the greatest
light and its ointment
is like sweet dew and
the fragrance like myrrh
and it is like from paradise.
Most importantly, the oil
shines as brightly as the sun.
The oil causes
Enoch's face to shine
like the faces of the
angels, which in turn shine
like the face of God.
Clues to the composition
of this incredible oil
are found in the tradition
of Adam's third son
Seth, and his mission to Eden
to acquire the oil of mercy.
In my view, this is
likely the chrism.
In the story, at
the age of 900 Adam
falls ill and bids all
his sons to come to him.
Seth offers to go to paradise
to get the fruit of paradise,
but Adam refuses.
Instead, he bids Eve and Seth
to go to paradise and pray
to God to give them of the tree
out of which the oil floweth.
When they arrive, God
sends the archangel Michael
to refuse Seth
this oil of mercy,
but to promise him that it shall
be given to the holy people
at the end of time.
Michael tells Seth that the oil
will be used in the end times
for those who will be worthy
of entering the garden.
Now, that is certainly quite
a provocative statement,
as many believe that we
live in the overlapping
period between the end of
the one age or cosmic cycle
and the beginning of another.
So could this oil be awaiting
discovery by us to take us
into the garden, the cosmos?
I believe so.
The oil, says Michael, will be
used to transform or to assist
in the transition or ascension
of the righteous souls
into celestial or
star beings, and will
assist in the soul's
voyage or journey home
through the wormhole
to the open heaven.
In the story, Seth
is given three seeds
from the Tree of Life.
He returns with
these and places them
in the mouth of his dead father.
In Christian legend,
these three ethereal seeds
grew into the tree that produced
the wooden pillar upon which
Jesus, the second
Adam, was crucified.
Interestingly, the
Cathars of southern France
created this cryptic watermark
of a serpent winding up
the tree or cross and spitting
from its mouth three rings
or seeds.
These could be the
three seeds that
correspond to the cintamani
or wish-fulfilling jewels
that manifest the rainbow
body in the Tibetan tradition.
This is why I believe the
symbol of the cintamani
is on the book in Jesus'
hand in this sixth century
icon from the
Sinai, and why it's
on his robe of the soul in
this incredible depiction
from Italy.
The triple dot symbol
signifies his attainment
of the light body.
My wife Clare and I
use essential oils
as part of our self-care kit.
They deliver awesome
results, keeping us
well and spiritually balanced.
As we learned in the
previous episode,
they interact with one of
the sheaths of the soul
to produce their results.
We have also made
massive studies
of the ancients'
knowledge of sacred oils
and we're attempting to find
out just what the seeds were
that produced this light
body oil, the chrism.
The ancients assuredly knew that
these sacred plants or trees
produce the holy
oil, the chrism.
The oils, they
tell us, were used
as part of ancient ascension
practices, called theurgy
or the divine work of
perfecting the soul that
culminated in the
attainment of the ascension
or the light body.
In sacred oil
philosophy, plants act
as collectors or
receivers of interstellar
or cosmic frequency.
And when distilled into an
oil, they carry this frequency
and make it accessible to the
human body and to the soul.
And as Clare and I
discussed in "Arcanum,"
nowhere is this understanding
of the cosmic vibrations
in oils more prominent
than ancient Egypt.
Especially incredible is
the ancient Egyptian use
of sacred oils as part
of a soul-rising or soul
resurrection and
ascension technology.
This is a detail from the
spectacular golden throne
of Tutankhamen.
His wife, Ankhesenamun,
anoints him
with the sacred oil that
enabled the spirit of God
to enter into Tutankhamen.
We see the sacred blue
lotus flower on the stand
beside them.
To the ancient
Egyptians, the blue lotus
is the symbol of the rebirth of
the sun and the awakened soul.
The ancient Egyptians believed
that the soul of the deceased
came to reside in
the heavens as a star
and would ride the
wormhole-shaped boat
or ark of eternity forever.
What we notice here is that both
the bow and stern of this soul
ship are decorated with
blue lotus flowers,
highlighting the role of
this flower or perhaps
its essential oil in
the ascension process.
The resurrection of the
human soul in the afterlife
was the central fact of the
ancient Egyptian religion,
wrote the poet and
Egyptologist Gerald Massey.
And the transfigured
or re-erected mummy,
otherwise called the karast,
was the supreme symbol.
This is Tutankhamen as
a transfigured being
in the karast garment or body
with the ouroburos symbol
of eternity surrounding
him from his gilt shrine.
Dr. Charles Muses proposed
that the Egyptians
had developed a technology in
which tones, lights, and an as
yet unidentified plant are
used to open a rusty valve
or trigger the production
of large pulses of hormones,
similar to the ecdysone produced
by larval forms of insects,
which allows the
adult form to emerge.
In this way, they would allow
the gestation or mutation
of a non-molecular
body, a new skin that
would allow the survival
of consciousness
beyond physical death.
I have equated this new skin to
the Tibetan rainbow light body.
As Dr. muses points
out, we see three rays
or beams of starpower
energy entering the forehead
of the pupal Osiris.
In Egypt, the etheric
energy or quintessence
was represented in the form
of the five-pointed sba star.
The word sba, or
star, also means door.
And with the
determinative for walking,
it meant passing through
a star door, said Muses.
Well, how about a stargate?
All of this brings
us to a key point
in ancient Egyptian
ethnobotany, said Muses.
Ingestion of these sacred
materials, these oils,
was designed not merely to give
a high, as with the blue lotus,
but to trigger and impel the
metamorphic process leading
to a theurgic transmutation
of human nature
into apotheosis or divinity.
This process was overseen by
cosmic regions, the living
archetypes of stellar
powers, said Muses,
and to attain the awareness
of these star powers or beings
is part of our goal,
because over and over again
in ancient Egyptian
ascension stories,
we hear of cosmic
beings assisting us
in completing our own ascension.
In other words, we don't
have to do it alone.
The great secret
of ancient Egypt
centers on this theurgy
or divine work and the use
of divine tones,
lights, and plants
that enable one
to raise the soul
and self-realize
their light body.
Tutankhamen was the finale of
Egypt's famed 18th dynasty,
a time of magic and
mystery that gave us
some of history's
greatest purveyors
of the secrets of ascension,
including Hatshepsut,
the starchild who
became a pharaoh
and married a commoner
who discovered
the secrets of transfiguration.
Her successor Thutmosis
III, the so-called Napoleon
of ancient Egypt, who
the Rosicrucians claim
is their founder
and the producer
of a mystical white
powder of gold
that fed the light
bodies of the pharaohs,
took on the mantle
of Hatshepsut.
In circa 1350 BC, the 18th
dynasty and the Egyptian empire
was at the height of
its accomplishment.
Tutankhamen's father, a mystic
and visionary pharaoh named
Akhenaten, came to the throne.
And he promptly launched a
religious revolution in Egypt,
shaking it to its core, shaking
a religion to its core that had
a 3,000-year history.
He began his rule by
forbidding worship
of all the pantheon of
ancient Egyptian gods,
replacing the old-time
gods, the old-time religion,
with the new religion
of the disc called aton.
The aton, or the uh-tone, was
symbolized by the sun disc
emanating rays.
However, the aton
was not the sun.
The aton was the light
that illuminated the sun.
It was the universal
spiritual presence or force,
a soul-force, if you will.
And contact with
its mystic light
brought about a
mystic rapture, which
is but another name for the
attainment of the rainbow body
of light or the light body.
The disc worship
images were almost all
created according to the
same formula, Akhenaten
standing in front of an
altar offering a jar of oil
to the aton while Nefertiti
stands behind him,
also offering a jar of oil.
Both are seen
inhaling or breathing
in the rejuvenating
ankh, or key of life,
just like the Christian
Holy Spirit is inhaled
or breathed in.
And by means of theurgical
rites or magical rites,
Akhenaten and Nefertiti
breathes in divine
illuminating fire
or light of the aton
and incorporates the divine
light into their own being.
The word theurgy relates to
the Greek word theogogia,
which refers to a
drawing in or a drawing
down of a divine force.
The result of drawing
in or inhaling
is the illumination and
ascension of the soul.
And here we note
that Nefertiti wears
a transparent pleated linen
a robe tied with a sash.
In Egyptian symbolism, this
symbolizes her attainment
of the afterlife
garment of the soul.
So is it possible that
this scene indicates
that she is weaving this garment
or sheath from strands of light
from aton, or in fact that she
is preparing to anoint herself
with an oil that
will do this for her?
Scans of the famed
King Tut burial chamber
have revealed two hidden
rooms that could contain
metal or organic material.
The remains of Nefertiti
could be inside,
along with incredible clues
to the light body, I am sure.
Regarding the key of life,
it's intriguing to point out
a bit of wordplay.
The word aton could
be pronounced ay-tone,
suggesting an anointing
by a tone or a vibration.
The idea that our sun emits or
rains a key of life upon Earth
is actually based
on solid science,
for our sun is actually like
a giant musical instrument.
The entire sun vibrates
from a complex pattern
of acoustical waves.
It actually rings like
a bell and vibrates
like an organ pipe.
In fact, scientists
estimate that the sun
has 10 million keys or notes.
And the National Optical
Astronomy Observatory
says we can learn a lot
by listening to the sun.
This NOAO image from an
article on solar music
shows the pattern of
up and down movement
from a single
solar musical note.
Red is up and blue is down.
And this is the
actual solar surface
showing the up and
down pattern of all 10
million solar musical
notes played at once.
Another ancient Egyptian
belief about the sun,
that it is a tunnel
to heaven, is also
supported by a new study that
suggests that wormholes might
exist between distant stars.
So is the sun actually the
way the soul gets to heaven?
Scientists at the Eurasian
National University
in Kazakhstan say that instead
of being empty tunnels,
these wormholes would
contain what they describe
as a perfect fluid, a
quark-gluon plasma that
flows back and forth
between the two stars.
A perfect fluid?
Is it possible that our sun
produces the oil of perfection
or the chrism?
Or does the sun send
tones that activate
the oil within our soul?
There are lots of questions
like this to be asked,
and science, I believe,
is on the verge
of discovering the answers.
Shown here is one of
the most famous images
from the reign of Akhenaten.
It's now housed in the
Neues Museum in Berlin.
What we see is the aton
beaming ankhs or keys of life,
notes to the noses of
Akhenaten and Nefertiti
and three of their
six daughters.
Akhenaten and Nefertiti are
seen inhaling the key of life
from the aton because the key of
life is actually dipped in oil.
Followers of this
mystic couple had
copies of this tablet
set up in their homes,
and through the imagery
would participate
in this ceremony with them.
So taking the wordplay, one
wonders if the key of life
is literally a key
tone or vibration
from the aton or atone
disc that makes one at one
with the cosmos.
Some proposed that Akhenaten is
actually kissing his daughter
in this image.
However, on closer inspection,
something far more mystical
is taking place.
He appears to be breathing or
transmitting the key of life
into the nostrils
of his daughter.
This was duplicated in
the later Jewish account
of the creation of man
when the Book of Genesis
says, "then the Lord God formed
man of the dust from the ground
and breathed into his
nostrils the breath of life
and man became a living being."
The key to this scene
is Akhenaten's daughter,
who points to the
Egyptian hieroglyph mist.
This glyph resembles
a three-fold fall
of radiating water.
It means celestial
tears, dew, or mist,
and portrays drops
of water or vibration
raining or radiating
from the aton.
The same hieroglyphic also
means instruction or teaching,
leading us to the pun
that this glyph stands
for the mysteries of the soul
raining down from heaven.
This glyph is also found in
the hieroglyph for the aakhu,
meaning beings of light, i.e.
wise, instructed
folk and the sun.
In Budge's
hieroglyphic dictionary
are the following additional
definitions of aakhu,
to be bright, glorious; to
be excellent and renowned.
It also means transfigured
beings or shining ones.
The threefold fall of divine
light, tones, or rings
made its way into
Christian symbolism,
where it symbolizes
the Holy Spirit.
What we see is Jesus standing
in a triple-ray glyph
in transfiguration scenes
in which the Holy Spirit is
transmitted into his
body and he acquires
the garment of light,
the garment of love-light
to be more correct.
It's apparent that this
atunement or atonement
in which Akhenaten
transmits the key of life
to his daughter that enables
her to weave her light body
was recovered 1,300 years later
by the Essenes, predominantly
Jewish mystics living
in Jerusalem and Egypt
who were also heavily
influenced by Buddhism.
John the Baptist, Mary, all
the disciples were Essenes.
And my sense is
that this atunement
is the subject of Christ's book
in this icon from the Sinai.
And evidence of the recovery
of the hidden knowledge
of the secret light of
the aton that illuminates
our soul is found in
the Christian practice
called Pentecost.
50 days after the
Resurrection, the cosmic Christ
appeared to the disciples
in the upper room,
which is a metaphor
for the inner chamber
of the temple in our mind.
He transmitted the
vibration of the Holy Spirit
to the disciples.
We see them with
illuminated halos,
and also we see them
with flames coming out
of the top of their head that
indicate their consciousness
has been changed.
They are now illuminated beings.
The images of Akhenaten
and Nefertiti in the aton
and the disciples with
the adon or the Lord
are interchangeable, suggesting
a continuous transmission
of this mystic soul teaching.
The Book of Proverbs
says that the soul of man
is God's candle.
A candle is a vessel that
includes a wick and oil that
must be lit with a flame.
So the message here is
that we must each lift
our candle of a mysterious
and divine light
that produces an oil that
illuminates our soul.
And by raising up the
candle, we not only
reveal the soul in
the body, but we
clarify that the body is made
to be a vessel for the soul.
Jewish mysticism teaches
that the candle must be lit
until the flame can stand
alone, without any further need
for the one who lit it.
The soul comes into the body
to use his or her own strength
to act and thereby
become a partner with God
in the creation of the world.
This is why the
lighted candle was
the symbol of the
first Christians, who
called themselves Illuminati.
So call it the aton or the light
of God, this light from the sun
or the light that illuminates
the sun is an activator
or attractor of souls.
And it is upon this light
that we are raptured or ascend
to heaven.
I'd like to leave
you with a meditation
on Botticelli's famous
Madonna of the Magnificat.
The title of the
painting derives
from the word magnificat, which
is written in the book held
by the two angels.
The prayer begins, "my
soul magnifies the Lord."
The word magnifies means
enlarges, boosts, enhances,
maximizes, amplifies,
expands, glorifies.
This tells us that the soul
is like a lens magnifying
the image.
And here we see
the Virgin anointed
by the hidden sun, the aton,
with 12 crowns of apocalypse.
Take a look at the angel
on the left-hand side.
The angel is inhaling the
rays from the hidden sun.
So this scene from ancient
Egypt and Botticelli's scene
are showing us exactly
the same thing.
Over the course of the
ages of nearly 3,000 years,
we see people practicing
theurgy, or drawing in
or drawing down a divine force.
Both images tell the story of
the awakening, illumination,
and perfection of the soul.
Further, they are
telling us that our body
is like a radio that is
switched on but emits no sound.
However, through the use of
tones, lights, and plants,
the soul can be retuned
so that the signal which
has been there all along can
be received and utilized.
So just imagine.
We are part of a
group of initiates
on our path of ascension and
we enter the upper chamber
of a magnificent temple.
We gather in a circle
around a translucent table,
a table made by angels,
a table composed
of an ethereal substance known
as the wish-fulfilling jewel,
the blue substance
of heaven that's
mixed with a pure
earthly substance.
We each take a
seat at this table.
A beam of sunlight illuminates
the table and touching it,
connects us instantly
to a soothing vibration.
We anoint our forehead
with the sacred oil
as a symbol of the recognition
of God's spirit within us.
We unite our heart and
mind as a living soul,
one with all souls,
with the universe.
And as we do this,
we are immediately
transported to an
interior dimension
where we are at one
with all that is.
And from the heart
of this realm comes
a divine light that fills
the room with flames
of a brilliant peace and joy.
You breathe it in deeply into
the center of your being.
And as it rises up your candle,
your spinal cord system,
it ignites into a flame
in your pineal gland
and you begin to experience a
holy communion with the highest
spiritual being you can imagine,
radiant, glowing, glorious.
And with this being, you sound
a sacred ohm or you sing amen.
Until next time, be humble, let
your light shine, and namaste.
[THEME MUSIC]